#summary How to install cmClasses.

First you need to get a copy, then you can install it.
There is a tiny thing you will have to configure.
Lets go!

== Download ==
There are two ways to get a copy.
But before it is important to mention this:

*The library does not need to be installed within the folder which is readable by apache. It can be installed anywhere on the file system.*

Please choose your type of installation now:

=== Subversion ===
The library can be pulled from the Google Code Subversion Server.
To do so you need a SVN client software on your machine.
In the end you will see a list of files which were installed - this is the aim of this section.

==== Linux ====
On Linux machines SVN should be there by default, otherwise you can install it using the package manager of your Linux.
If you have SVN on your machine you can checkout the library within a console.

Do these steps:
  * open a console
  * go to the location where the library should be installed
  * create a new folder called 'cmclasses' of 'ClassContainer' or what ever you like
  * type in `svn co http://code.google.com/svn/cmclasses cmclasses`

Of course, you can replace the last 'cmclasses' with you individual folder name.

==== Windows ====

On Windows machines i advise you to use [http://tortoise.tigris.org Tortoise] SVN client which integrates nicely into Windows context menu and is really easy to use.

Afterwards you do the following:
  * create a folder called 'cmClasses' or 'ClassContainer' or what ever you want
  * right click the folder and click on "SVN Checkout"
  * enter the URL `http://code.google.com/svn/cmclasses` into the field "URL of repository"
  * hit "OK"

=== Archive ===
For those who does not have SVN or definitly not want to contribute, there are different archives to download on the Google Code site.

Do the following steps:
  * go to http://code.google.com/p/cmClasses/Download
  * download the latest version of 'cmClasses_0.x' in the format you like
  * open the file exploring tool you use
  * go to the location where the library should be installed
  * create a new folder called 'cmclasses' of 'ClassContainer' or what ever you like
  * extract all files and folders from the archive into the new folder

== Configuration ==
Okay, i guess you just installed the library into a folder on your machine.
Now it is important to configure PHP to use this library. This going to be easy.
At first we will set the include path to the library and then we will check for missing PHP modules.

=== Include Path ===
The include path defined in PHP's configuration file (php.ini) sets all paths where PHP will look for files (also classes) when these PHP commands are used.
  * include
  * include_one
  * require
  * require_once

Now, there are two ways to change the include path:
  * accessing and changing php.ini, which is not possible in hosted webspace
  * loading a small script which will extend the include path

==== useClasses.php ====
This is the most easy way.
You just need to load a small script in the main PHP Script of you applications.

Do these steps now:
  * go into the library folder
  * find a PHP script called 'useClasses.php5' and copy it to a central location like the web root folder
  * open this script and enter the path to the library where it says `$__container = "..."`
  * form a habit of always including this script in all of your applications first

{{{
require_once( "/path/to/script/useClasses.php5" );
}}}

If you copied the script to the web root folder and a project would existing in the sub folder 'demo' then the line in the projects main script would be:

{{{
require_once( "../useClasses.php5" );
}}}

You can also copy the script into the folders of your project but this is not recommended.

==== changing php.ini ====
If you got full access to the web server you can access and change the PHP configuration file.

Go on like this:
  * find the php.ini which is used by the web server
  * open the configuration file and find the line where it says `include_path = "..."`
  * add the path to the library before all other paths (or after .) and seprate this path with the seperator sign depending on the Operating System
  * form a habit of always including a script called 'import.php5' in all of your applications first

{{{
require_once( "/path/to/library/import.php5" );
}}}

=== Extensions ===
Some classes in the library are using PHP extensions which may not be activated or compiles in by default.

These extensions are:
  * BZ2 (php_bz2)
  * CURL (php_curl)
  * GD2 (php_gd2)
  * IMAP (php_imap)
  * MIME Magic (php_mime_magic)
  * PDO_msSQL (php_pdo_mssql)
  * PDO_pgSQL (php_pdo_pgsql)
  * pgSQL (php_pgsql)
  * sqlite (php_sqlite)
  * XML Transformation (php_xsl)

You do not need to install all of the extensions now.
But now you now why some classes will not work and what you will have to do.

=== Test ===
Now it is time to test the new installed library.
Write a small script like this:

{{{
<?php
require_once("/path/to/library/useClasses.php5");
?>
}}}

If you get the message {{{Path to "cmClasses" is not set correctly in Script "C:\.mirror\useClasses.php5".}}} than your set path is wrong.

To get a first visible result, save a script with:
{{{
<?php
require_once("/path/to/library/useClasses.php5");
import( 'de.ceus-media.math.RomanNumbers' );

$year	= 2008;
$roman	= Math_RomanNumbers::convertToRoman( $year );
print( $year." in roman is ".$roman );
?>
}}}

If you get a Message like {{{Fatal error: Class 'Math_RomanNumbers' not found in ...}}} then the library is not installed correctly.

If you get {{{2008 in roman is MMVIII}}} then everything is fine.

=== Troubleshooting ===

==== PHP file extension ====
The file extension within this library is always 'php5'.
Make sure your server has at least PHP 5.2.0 installed and the web server is configured to understand these files as PHP.
Please read further information about server installation on web sites dealing with this topic.

==== What else ? ====

Ülease feel free to share your experiences with us (and the rest of the world). See the [Contribution contribution] page.

== Extras ==
You can also get:
  * Documentations( see Download)
  * Unit tests (are included in since version 0.6)
  * Code coverage reports (will be created by unit tests since version 0.6)

We recommend to install every extra directly into the class container folder.<br/>
If you have installed the class container outside your web folder, there are 2 ways:
  # install into class container folder and configure aliases for the web server
  # install into web folder and correct paths in scripts if necessary (e.g. Tests/initLoaders.php5)